In this video you'll learn about WordPress updates to the core files and why it's important to keep
There are two levels of Wordpress core updates major feature releases and minor and security updates.
Both types of updates can be made to be completely automated or initiated by the administrator and they
By the end of this lesson you'll have an understanding of how each type of update is referenced and
functionality.
Let's start by just taking a look at what the Wordpress Codex says about updating WordPress.
I'm at Wordpress dot org and I just did a search up here at the right for updating WordPress.
There's a page called updating Wordpress and it has a little bit of detail that you can read about even
The main paragraph that we'll look at right here is the fact that automatic background updates are now
in wordpress built in.
Starting at versioned 3.7 you don't have to apply minor and security updates and they are set to actually
automatically apply in the background.
It's definitely a best practice to leave this set as is.
Now these are referred to with a third decimal place within the version numbers.
So we have 3.7 comes out at a certain time 3.7 point one will be a security update that can be automatically
activated just in the background as soon as Wordpress issues it.
they want to patch that immediately so that the risk of your site being hacked or compromised is minimized.
The next kind of update is called a major feature release and that would be to a new feature version
inside of the version that's currently active.
We just upgraded from version four point five point three to four point six.
And now 4.6 was a major feature release.
It was put out to add a lot of different features to WordPress and it's not necessarily a security update.
So these major feature releases do not automatically update but you can use one click instead of the
updating area inside of the Wordpress dashboard to update your version.
On the other hand some hosting companies provide automatic updates of the major feature release versions
In fact flywheel has an upgrade schedule that's about two to three weeks beyond when the new version
They do this for a reason and that's just in case there are any errors or security issues that immediately
All the sites on flywheel are as secure as they possibly can be.
So now in one of my sites wild food girl dotcom in my flywheel account is out of date.
It's got the previous latest version four point 5.3 but the version 4.6 was the newest version released
a couple of weeks ago.
Now you can see down here in their message they're going to be automatically upgrading sites starting
But if I wanted to manually upgrade to 4.6 through my flywheel dashboard I could just click this button
right here inside the see panel site ground.
If you scroll down towards the bottom they have their special software and services section where they
I just clicked it and it's loading the sites that I have and enabled it this domain and I can choose
at all.
I could disable auto update right here if I want to now you probably have an old version of a WordPress
and see that older version and be able to make some updates.
I've got our fire weed photography site open inside of my local development environment.
So I do have map running like this.
And if I open that WordPress dashboard I can see this little nag at the top says WordPress.
And there's a link there.
Also inside of the dashboard area the at a glance which it says what version I'm running of Wordpress
as well as what theme I'm running.
So right now pause the video and find an older version of one of the sites that we've created together
Whether it's in your local development environment using map or another service or whether it's on one
is.
Once you have your Wordpress dashboard open there are a few places to check out to see information about
First on the dashboard admin bar at the top there's a little recycle or circular icon at the top that
And this links through to this Updates page right here within the Wordpress dashboard.
Also you can see under plug ins there's a little indicator that tells me I have 10 plug ins that are
For now let's take a look at the updates page in the Wordpress dashboard and that'll give you a message
Now I could just click Update now right now and update that WordPress version internally within my local
But the first thing you want to do and this is important.
You want to back up your database and files.
It's always a recommended best practice before updating any WordPress versions plugins or themes that
were to go wrong you could revert back to your backup files.
corps in quite a long time a number of years but it's always a best practice to keep a current backup
on file.
What I've done inside my local host and I'll ask you to do is to create a full backup that's dated today
so that you can always restore that backup in the case that this update goes wrong.
The way I did that was I activated the all in one W.P. migration plugin and I clicked export and I saved
And here you can see the file name of my double you press backup file has the date and that's today's
So back on the site now that I have my whole site backed up including files and the entire database
Now go ahead and follow along and do that on your own site.
OK great.
There's always a welcome video and there's some notes about what's been added in these major feature
updates.
I hope that worked well for you if you are in your local environment.
As I was.
It took a few minutes probably about three or four minutes to update to this version.
I find that when I'm on a live server like at flywheel or at say ground the updates that I do from the
Of course my server is connected to the Internet probably in a faster way than I am at home.
You may get a notification that a database update is required if you get a white screen inside the Wordpress
Now it's a good idea to do that as soon as possible and you should just hit that blue button and update
the database right away.
database require to keep up with security threats and future releases.
through the dashboard.
If not I'm sure you'll have a chance to update WordPress soon as they usually release three to four
These are a little bit different in that themes and plug ins are for the most part provided by third
This means that updated versions should be tested to make sure they were correctly either before or
Let's get to it.